UC Library Search is
a multi-layered discovery tool designed to search print,
digital materials and many other types
of resources at UC Riverside,
other UC Libraries and beyond.
UC Library Search can be searched using
the general search boxes on the Library's website,
or can be accessed directly using
the UC Library Search link in
the popular link section on the library homepage.
Searches using the general website
search boxes are treated as keywords.
You can also try and search for specific titles,
names of authors, specific journals, and more.
Searches using the general website search boxes,
search various other library resources
in addition to searching
UC Library Search.
When you go to UC Library Search for the first time,
you will see several reminder messages,
such as signing into
your library account and signing on to the campus VPN.
When you are signed in to your library account,
you will see all the features and options available to
you depending upon your affiliation to UCR.
In addition, signing into the campus.
VPN will allow you to see
all the different materials available through
our license and subscribed resources.
Clicking on the SEE ALL link from
the general search results page will
go directly to UC Library Search
and by default search the, "Articles,
books, and more..." search profile.
Note, again, the reminders to sign
into your library account as well as the VPN
if you're off-campus.
When you sign into your library account,
you'll be prompted to login using your UCR credentials,
specific, your UCR net ID, and associated password.
When you are signed into your account.
You will also see your library profile,
what materials you have checked out,
what you have requested at UCR or from
other libraries and many other features.
This is an example of
a simple search in UC Library Search
with the various search profiles
automatically displayed below the search box,
as well as suggested search words.
And this is an advanced search with
the various search profiles to select from,
as well as additional filters and limit options.
Notice the variety of features and labels to the left of
the screen are facets or filters you
can use to refine your search results.
Other noteworthy features include the "Map it" button,
"save query", "check availability",
and an assortment of other options which
will allow you to save a permanent URL,
send a copy of the citation via email,
save that record to your favorites and more.
This is a typical full display of a book available at
UCR as well as other UC libraries.
Note the full array of "Send to" options,
the "Map it" button and the "Locate"
link provide similar information.
If UCR's copy happens to be checked
out or unavailable for some other reason,
the "Request through Interlibrary Loan" link
would allow you to request
a copy of the book to be delivered to UCR for your use.
The other "Find it" features you might see,
depending upon the items you are interested in,
are "UCR Request" for paging
in an item from the shelves to be placed on hold for you.
"Article/Chapter Scan" to scan
a specific article or chapter from
a book from a physical copy in our UCR collection.
Among the various facets or filters you
can use to refine your search results.
Some of the more useful ones include "Availability",
"Resource Type", "Library", and "UC Libraries".
Take for example, our "Chief Joseph" search.
We could use the "Peer-
reviewed Journals" under Availability facet,
and select "Articles" under
the Resource Type facet and apply
the filters to refine our results.
The records in our brief results list are
now limited to peer-reviewed articles.
Note that in UC Library Search, if available,
direct links to "Read Article" or
"Download PDF" allows you to access the articles directly.
Remember, if you are off-campus,
you must be connected to the campus VPN in
order to access licensed and subscribed resources.
If the "Read Article" or "Download
PDF" links are available and you click on the link,
this LibKey webpage will appear and
should resolve to the article you wish to view.
If there are no obvious direct links to the article.
Look for other links such as "Available Online".
Or click on the title of the item to view
the full display and scan for other online options.
This article has a few potential online options.
The article was published in 2010.
So it should be available from JSTOR.
When searching most library resources
combining keywords and
concepts using connectors such as OR, AND,
and NOT, also known as Boolean operators,
is an effective strategy to
expand or narrow your search results.
Note, the Boolean operators must be in
ALL CAPS when searching UC Library Search.
When building or refining search strategies,
you can also use quotation marks [" "],
to look for an exact phrase,
an asterisk [*] can be used to find
different possible variations to a root word.
You should also group similar keywords and
concepts by using parentheses [ ( ) ].
UC Library Search also has
a dedicated search profile for "Course Reserves".
You can always search for items by using
information such as the title of the book or video,
the author or director, etc.
Another option is to search using
other known information such as
the "Course Instructor" or the "Course ID".
This is a search for items on course reserves for English
001A. Note
the Course Reserves search profile features,
facets for "Course Instructor" and "Course Name".
In addition to your UCR library card
for physical items on course reserves,
you'll need to know which library it's located
at and the call number in order to check out the items.
Some items on course reserves might
also be available in multiple formats,
such as print and ebook. There may also
be more than one copy of the same item on reserve.
Note, the options in
the "Find/Request" section
had been blurred out because items on
course reserves are generally not eligible
to be requested from other libraries outside of UCR.
Finally, some other notable features.
If you are looking for even more items
beyond UC Library Search,
then you might be interested in searching WorldCat.
WorldCat is another example of a library catalog designed
to find items held by libraries all around the world.
UC Library Search also
features a dedicated "Newspapers Search",
a "Find by Citation" tool and direct access to our
"Ask Us" chat reference service and many other options.
Newspaper articles from
many different licensed and subscribed resources
can be searched from a number of locations,
including from the main menu link.
You can also easily move from
one page of results to the next,
or increase the number of results to display per page.
The default number is ten (10) records per page.
If you're having any trouble using UC Library Search,
please do not hesitate to click on the Ask Us button.
24/7. We're here to help.